src/docs/in_action/index.md, before:

title: http4k in Action
description: Example applications and usages of http4k, including TDD approach 

# http4k in Action

### KotlinConf presentations: Server as a Function. In Kotlin. __________________
- [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/daviddenton/server-as-a-function-in-kotlin)
- [Video](http://bit.ly/serverasafunction)

# See http4k in action in these example projects and repos:
Each project is tagged with the http4k features it demonstrates:

### ["Hello World"](https://start.http4k.org)
<span class="pill">CD pipeline</span>
### [TDD'd example application](https://github.com/http4k/http4k-by-example)
<span class="pill">Templates</span> 
<span class="pill">Testing</span> 
<span class="pill">JSON / Lenses</span> 
<span class="pill">CD pipeline</span> 
<span class="pill">Approval Testing</span> 
<span class="pill">OpenApi</span> 
<span class="pill">Static resources</span>
### [Dropbox clone in 70 lines of Kotlin](https://github.com/daviddenton/http4kbox)
<span class="pill">Templates</span> <span class="pill">Testing</span> <span class="pill">Http Client</span> <span class="pill">Multipart</span> <span class="pill">AWS</span> <span class="pill">CD pipeline</span> <span class="pill">Serverless</span> <span class="pill">GraalVM</span>
### [Simple websocket driven chat-server in 30 lines of Kotlin](https://github.com/daviddenton/http4k-demo-irc)
<span class="pill">Testing</span> <span class="pill">Websockets</span> <span class="pill">CD Pipeline</span> <span class="pill">Static resources</span>
### [Stage-by-stage example of London-style TDD development process](https://http4k.org/guide/example)
<span class="pill">Testing</span> 
### [Todo backend (standard routing)](https://github.com/http4k/http4k-todo-backend)
<span class="pill">Testing</span> <span class="pill">JSON / Lenses</span> <span class="pill">CD pipeline</span>
### [Todo backend (contract routing)](https://github.com/http4k/http4k-contract-todo-backend)
<span class="pill">Testing</span> <span class="pill">JSON / Lenses</span> <span class="pill">OpenApi</span> <span class="pill">CD pipeline</span>
### [Real World example (Medium clone)](https://github.com/alisabzevari/kotlin-http4k-realworld-example-app)
<span class="pill">Testing</span> <span class="pill">Contracts</span>

Commit message:

Add links to latest http4k talks + youtube playlist

src/docs/in_action/index.md, after:

title: http4k in Action
description: Example applications and usages of http4k, including TDD approach 

# http4k in Action

### Presentations: 

- *"Writing Test Driven Apps with http4k"* ([video](https://bit.ly/tdd-http4k-kotliners)), by [David Denton](https://twitter.com/tarkaTheRotter) and [Ivan Sanchez](https://twitter.com/s4nchez), presented at Kotliners 2020. 
- *"Designing Microservices in Functional Style"* ([video](https://bit.ly/uberto-functional-microservices)) by [Uberto Barbini](https://twitter.com/ramtop), presented at VirtualJUG 2020.
- *"Live coding: Server as a function with http4k"* ([video](https://bit.ly/dmitry-live-coding-http4k)) by [Dmitry Kandalov](https://twitter.com/dmitrykandalov), presented at Talking.Kt 2020.
- *"Server as a Function. In Kotlin. _______________"* ([video](http://bit.ly/serverasafunction) / [slides](https://speakerdeck.com/daviddenton/server-as-a-function-in-kotlin)), by [David Denton](https://twitter.com/tarkaTheRotter) and [Ivan Sanchez](https://twitter.com/s4nchez), presented at KotlinConf 2018.

Also, check out the [YouTube Playlist](https://bit.ly/http4k-talks) for the lastest collection of talks featuring http4k.

# See http4k in action in these example projects and repos:
Each project is tagged with the http4k features it demonstrates:

### ["Hello World"](https://start.http4k.org)
<span class="pill">CD pipeline</span>
### [TDD'd example application](https://github.com/http4k/http4k-by-example)
<span class="pill">Templates</span> 
<span class="pill">Testing</span> 
<span class="pill">JSON / Lenses</span> 
<span class="pill">CD pipeline</span> 
<span class="pill">Approval Testing</span> 
<span class="pill">OpenApi</span> 
<span class="pill">Static resources</span>
### [Dropbox clone in 70 lines of Kotlin](https://github.com/daviddenton/http4kbox)
<span class="pill">Templates</span> <span class="pill">Testing</span> <span class="pill">Http Client</span> <span class="pill">Multipart</span> <span class="pill">AWS</span> <span class="pill">CD pipeline</span> <span class="pill">Serverless</span> <span class="pill">GraalVM</span>
### [Simple websocket driven chat-server in 30 lines of Kotlin](https://github.com/daviddenton/http4k-demo-irc)
<span class="pill">Testing</span> <span class="pill">Websockets</span> <span class="pill">CD Pipeline</span> <span class="pill">Static resources</span>
### [Stage-by-stage example of London-style TDD development process](https://http4k.org/guide/example)
<span class="pill">Testing</span> 
### [Todo backend (standard routing)](https://github.com/http4k/http4k-todo-backend)
<span class="pill">Testing</span> <span class="pill">JSON / Lenses</span> <span class="pill">CD pipeline</span>
### [Todo backend (contract routing)](https://github.com/http4k/http4k-contract-todo-backend)
<span class="pill">Testing</span> <span class="pill">JSON / Lenses</span> <span class="pill">OpenApi</span> <span class="pill">CD pipeline</span>
### [Real World example (Medium clone)](https://github.com/alisabzevari/kotlin-http4k-realworld-example-app)
<span class="pill">Testing</span> <span class="pill">Contracts</span>
