src/docs/blog/meet_http4k/index.md, before:

# Server as a Function. In Kotlin. Typesafe. Without the Server.

##### [@daviddenton](http://github.com/daviddenton) / november 2017

## Meet [**http4k**](https://http4k.org).

Whenever (yet another) new JVM HTTP framework is released, the inevitable question that rightly get asked is **"How it this different to X?"**. In this post, I'm going to briefly cover what [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is, how we think it's different, and address some of those **bold claims** from the title of this post.

Here's a quick rundown of what we think those differences are:

* [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is small. Written in pure functional Kotlin, with zero dependencies.
* [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is simple. Like, really simple. No static API magic, no annotations, no reflection.
* [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is immutable. It relies on an immutable HTTP model, which makes it a snap to test and debug.
* [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is symmetric. The remote HTTP model is the same as the incoming model.
* [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is typesafe. Say goodbye to validation and marshalling boilerplate and hello to data class-based contracts for HTTP bodies.
* [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is serverless. Or rather - server independent. Test an app out of container and then deploy it into any supported container - including AWS Lambda.

### Oh god not another framework! Why does this even exist?!?
Firstly - we don't consider [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) to be a framework - it's a set of libraries providing a functional toolkit to serve and consume HTTP services, focusing on simple, consistent, and testable APIs. Hence, whilst it does provide support for various APIs *relevant to serving and consuming HTTP*, it does not provide every integration under the sun - merely simple points to allow those integrations to be hooked in.

Another thing to say is that (not very much) of [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is new - it's rather the distillation of 15 years worth of experience of using various server-side libraries and hence most of the good ideas are stolen. For instance - the routing module is inspired by [UtterlyIdle](https://github.com/bodar/utterlyidle), the basic "Server as a function" model is stolen from [Finagle](https://twitter.github.io/finagle/), and the contract module OpenApi/Swagger generator is ported from [Fintrospect](http://fintrospect.io/). 

With the growing adoption of Kotlin, we wanted something that would fully leverage the functional features of the language and it felt like a good time to start something from scratch, whilst avoiding the *magic* that plagues other frameworks. Hence, [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is primarily designed to be a Kotlin-first library.

## Claim A: Small, simple, immutable.
Based on the awesome ["Your Server as a Function"](https://monkey.org/~marius/funsrv.pdf) paper from Twitter, [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) apps are modelled by composing 2 types of simple, independent function. 

### Function 1: HttpHandler
An `HttpHandler` and represents an HTTP endpoint. It's not even an Interface, modelled merely as a [typealias](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/type-aliases.html):
```kotlin
typealias HttpHandler = (Request) -> Response
```
Here's a entire [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) application, which echoes request body back a the user. It only relies on the `http4k-core` module, which itself has zero dependencies:
```kotlin
val app = { request: Request -> Response(OK).body(request.body) }
val server = app.asServer(SunHttp(8000)).start()
```
The `Request` and `Response` objects in there are immutable data classes/POKOs, so testing the app requires absolutely no extra infrastructure - just call the function, it's as easy as:
```kotlin
class AppTest {
    @Test
    fun `responds as expected`() {
        assertThat(app(Request(POST, "/").body("hello")), equalTo(Response(OK).body("hello")))
    }
}
```
To plug it into a different Server-backend, just depend on the relevant module (Jetty, Undertow, Netty are available) and change the call to `asServer()`.

### Function 2: Filter
`Filters` provides pre and post Request processing:
```kotlin
interface Filter : (HttpHandler) -> HttpHandler
```
For discoverability reasons this is modelled as an Interface and not a [typealias](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/type-aliases.html) - it also has a couple of Kotlin [extension methods](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/extensions.html) to allow you to compose `Filters` with `HttpHandlers` and other `Filters`:
```kotlin
val setContentType = Filter { next ->
        { request -> next(request).header("Content-Type", "text/plain") }
    }
val repeatBody = Filter { next ->
        { request -> next(request.body(request.bodyString() + request.bodyString() }
    }
val composedFilter: Filter = repeatBody.then(setContentType)
val decoratedApp: HttpHandler = composedFilter.then(app)
```
Filters are also trivial to test independently, because they are generally just stateless functions.

### Routing
[http4k](https://http4k.org)'s nestable routing looks a lot like every other Sinatra-style framework these days, and allows for infinitely nesting `HttpHandlers` - this just exposes another `HttpHandler` so you can easily extract, test and reuse sets of routes as easily as you could with one:
```kotlin
val app: HttpHandler = routes(
    "/app" bind GET to decoratedApp,
    "/other" bind routes(
        "/delete" bind DELETE to { _: Request -> Response(OK) },
        "/post/{name}" bind POST to { request: Request -> Response(OK).body("you POSTed to ${request.path("name")}") }
    )
)
```

## Claim B. Symmetric HTTP
Out of the multitude of JVM http frameworks out there, not many actually consider how you app talks to other services, yet in this Microservice™ world that's an absolutely massive part of what many apps do!

As per a core principle behind "Server as a Function", [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) provides a symmetric API for HTTP clients - ie. it's *exactly* the same API as is exposed in [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) server applications - the `HttpHandler`. Here's that entire API again, just in case you've forgotten:
```kotlin
typealias HttpHandler = (Request) -> Response
```
What does that mean in practice? Well - for one thing, it's less for your brain to learn  because you already know the API:
```kotlin
val client: HttpHandler = ApacheClient()
val response: Response = client(Request(GET, "http://server/path"))
```
For another, it means that since clients are *just function*s you can easily stub them for testing, and since applications and clients are interchangeable, they can be plugged together in memory without putting them on the network - which makes testing insanely fast:

```kotlin
fun MyApp1(): HttpHandler = { Response(OK) }
fun MyApp2(app1: HttpHandler): HttpHandler = { app1(it) }

val app1: HttpHandler = MyApp1()
val app2: HttpHandler = MyApp2(app1)
```
[**http4k**](https://http4k.org) provides a HTTP client adapters for both [Apache](https://hc.apache.org/) and [OkHttp](http://square.github.io/okhttp/), all with streaming support.

## Claim C. Typesafe HTTP with Lenses
The immutable [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) model for HTTP objects contains all the usual suspect methods for getting values from the messages. For instance, if we are expecting a search parameter with a query containing a page number:
```kotlin
val request = Request(GET, "http://server/search?page=123")
val page: Int = request.query("page")!!.toInt
```
...but we also want to ensure that the expected values are both present and valid, since the above example will fail if either of those things is not true. For this purpose, we can use a [Lens](https://www.schoolofhaskell.com/school/to-infinity-and-beyond/pick-of-the-week/basic-lensing) to enforce the expected HTTP contract.

The use of Lenses in [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) applications can remove the need for writing any parsing or validation code for incoming data, as validations are taken care of by the library. Data received from clients can use exactly the same mechanisms, but violations do need to be handled.

### Lens basics
A Lens is a bi-directional entity which can be used to either *get* (extract) or *set* (inject) a particular value from/onto an HTTP message. [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) provides a DSL to configure these lenses to target particular parts of the message, whilst at the same time specifying the requirement for those parts (i.e. mandatory or optional) and the type. For the above example, we could use the `Query` Lens builder and then apply the Lens to the message:
```kotlin
val pageLens = Query.int().required("page")
val page: Int = pageLens(Request(GET, "http://server/search?page=123"))
```
If the query parameter is missing or not an Int, the lens extraction operation will fail. There are similar Lens builder functions for all parts of the HTTP message (`Header`, `Path`, `Body`, `FormField` etc..), and functions for all common JVM primitive types. They are all completely typesafe - there is no reflection or magic going on - just marshalling of the various entities (in this case String to Int conversion).

In the case of failure, we need to apply a Filter to detect the errors and convert them to a BAD_REQUEST response:
```kotlin
val queryName = Query.string().of("name")
val app: HttpHandler = routes(
      "/post" bind POST to { request: Request -> Response(OK).body(queryName(request)) }
    )

val app = ServerFilters.CatchLensFailure.then(handler)(Request(GET, "/hello/2000-01-01?myCustomType=someValue"))
```

Lenses also have a function to set an object *onto* a target object - since HTTP messages in [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) are immutable, this results in a copy of the object with the value set:
```kotlin
val pageSizeLens = Header.int().required("page")
val page: Response = pageLens(Response(OK), 123)
// or apply multiple lenses using with()
val updated: Request = Request(GET, "/foo").with(pageLens of 123, pageSizeLens of 10)
```

Securely extracting JDK primitives from HTTP messages is great, but we really want to avoid primitives entirely and go straight to domain types. During construction of Lens, the builders allow mapping to occur so we can leverage Kotlin data classes. This works for both get and set operations:
```kotlin
data class MyDate(val value: LocalDate)
val dateQuery = Query.localDate().map(::MyDate, MyDate::value).required("date")
val myDate: dateQuery = dateQuery(Request(GET, "http://server/search?date=2000-01-01"))
```

### Lensing HTTP bodies with Data classes
Some of the supported message libraries (eg. GSON, Jackson, XML) provide the mechanism to automatically marshall data objects to/from JSON and XML using reflection (oops - looks like we broke our reflection promise - but technically we're not doing it ;) !). This behaviour is supported in [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) Lenses through the use of the `auto()` method, which will marshall objects to/from HTTP messages:

```kotlin
data class Email(val value: String)
data class Message(val subject: String, val from: Email, val to: Email)

val messageLens = Body.auto<Message>().toLens()
val body = """{"subject":"hello","from":{"value":"bob@git.com"},"to":{"value":"sue@git.com"}}"""
val message: Message = messageLens(Request(GET, "/").body(body))
```

This mechanism works for all incoming and outgoing JSON and XML Requests and Responses. To assist with using this way of working, we have created a [tool](http://http4k-data-class-gen.herokuapp.com/) to automatically generate a set of data classes for a given messages.

## Claim D. Serverless
Ah yes - Serverless - the latest in the Cool Kids Club and killer fodder for the resume. Well, since [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is server independent, it turns out to be fairly trivial to deploy full applications to [AWS Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda), and then call them by setting up the [API Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway) to proxy requests to the function. Effectively, the combination of these two services become just another Server back-end supported by the library.

In order to achieve this, only a single interface `AppLoader` needs to be implemented - this is responsible for creating the `HttpHandler` which is adapted to the API of the `ApiGatewayProxyRequest/ApiGatewayProxyResponse` used by AWS. As this is AWS, there is a fair amount of configuration required to make this possible, but the only http4k specific config is to:
1. Set the function execution to call `org.http4k.aws.lambda.LambdaFunction::handle`
2. Set an environment variable for the Lambda `HTTP4K_BOOTSTRAP_CLASS` to the class of your `AppLoader` class.

Here's a simple example:
```kotlin
object TweetEcho : AppLoader {
    override fun invoke(env: Map<String, String>): HttpHandler = {
        Response(OK).body(it.bodyString().take(140))
    }
}
```
Although this works in the new version of [**http4k**](https://http4k.org), expect this API to change somewhat as is 

## The final word(s)!
The `http4k-core` module rocks in at <1000 lines of code (about 600kb), and has zero dependencies (other than the Kotlin language itself). Additionally, everything in the core is *functional and predictable* - there is no static API magic going on under the covers (making it difficult to have multiple apps in the same JVM), no compiler-plugins, and no reflection. It also provides:

* Support for static file serving with HotReload.
* A bunch of useful Filters for stuff like [Zipkin](http://zipkin.io/) Request Tracing.
* Support for Request Contexts.
* Facilities to record and replay HTTP traffic.

There are also a bunch of other modules available, all presented with the same concentration on Testability, API simplicity and consistency:
 
* ViewModel driven templating engines with HotReload.
* Popular JSON/XML library support for HTTP bodies.
* Typesafe, multipart forms processing, with support for Streaming uploads to a storage service.
* Typesafe contract module, providing live [OpenApi/Swagger](https://www.openapis.org/) documentation.
* [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/) request signing.
* [Resilience4j](http://resilience4j.github.io/resilience4j/) integration, including Circuit Breakers & Rate Limiting.
* Testing support via [Hamkrest](https://github.com/npryce/hamkrest) matchers and an in-memory [WebDriver](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium) implementation.

Lastly, [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is **proven in production**, it has been adopted in at least 2 global investment banks (that we know of) and is delivering traffic for a major publishing website (easily serving 10s of million hits per day on a few nodes) since March 2017. 

You can see a few example applications [here](/in_action/), including a bootstrap project for creating a [**Github -> Travis -> Heroku** CD pipeline](https://github.com/http4k/http4k-bootstrap) in a single command.

##### Footnotes
* **"But... but... but... asynchronous! And Webscale!"**, *I heard them froth*. Yes, you are correct - "Server as a Function" is based on asynchronous functions and [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) exposes a synchronous API. However, our experience suggests that for the vast majority of apps, it actually makes API integration harder unless you've got async all the way down - and that is assuming that async clients are actually available for all your various dependency types. We found that this plainly didn't matter for our use-cases so went for *Simple API™* instead... it's possible however that Kotlin co-routines will allow us to revisit this decision.

Commit message:

moving serverless-lambda into it's own module

src/docs/blog/meet_http4k/index.md, after:

# Server as a Function. In Kotlin. Typesafe. Without the Server.

##### [@daviddenton](http://github.com/daviddenton) / november 2017

## Meet [**http4k**](https://http4k.org).

Whenever (yet another) new JVM HTTP framework is released, the inevitable question that rightly get asked is **"How it this different to X?"**. In this post, I'm going to briefly cover what [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is, how we think it's different, and address some of those **bold claims** from the title of this post.

Here's a quick rundown of what we think those differences are:

* [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is small. Written in pure functional Kotlin, with zero dependencies.
* [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is simple. Like, really simple. No static API magic, no annotations, no reflection.
* [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is immutable. It relies on an immutable HTTP model, which makes it a snap to test and debug.
* [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is symmetric. The remote HTTP model is the same as the incoming model.
* [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is typesafe. Say goodbye to validation and marshalling boilerplate and hello to data class-based contracts for HTTP bodies.
* [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is serverless. Or rather - server independent. Test an app out of container and then deploy it into any supported container - including AWS Lambda.

### Oh god not another framework! Why does this even exist?!?
Firstly - we don't consider [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) to be a framework - it's a set of libraries providing a functional toolkit to serve and consume HTTP services, focusing on simple, consistent, and testable APIs. Hence, whilst it does provide support for various APIs *relevant to serving and consuming HTTP*, it does not provide every integration under the sun - merely simple points to allow those integrations to be hooked in.

Another thing to say is that (not very much) of [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is new - it's rather the distillation of 15 years worth of experience of using various server-side libraries and hence most of the good ideas are stolen. For instance - the routing module is inspired by [UtterlyIdle](https://github.com/bodar/utterlyidle), the basic "Server as a function" model is stolen from [Finagle](https://twitter.github.io/finagle/), and the contract module OpenApi/Swagger generator is ported from [Fintrospect](http://fintrospect.io/). 

With the growing adoption of Kotlin, we wanted something that would fully leverage the functional features of the language and it felt like a good time to start something from scratch, whilst avoiding the *magic* that plagues other frameworks. Hence, [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is primarily designed to be a Kotlin-first library.

## Claim A: Small, simple, immutable.
Based on the awesome ["Your Server as a Function"](https://monkey.org/~marius/funsrv.pdf) paper from Twitter, [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) apps are modelled by composing 2 types of simple, independent function. 

### Function 1: HttpHandler
An `HttpHandler` and represents an HTTP endpoint. It's not even an Interface, modelled merely as a [typealias](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/type-aliases.html):
```kotlin
typealias HttpHandler = (Request) -> Response
```
Here's a entire [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) application, which echoes request body back a the user. It only relies on the `http4k-core` module, which itself has zero dependencies:
```kotlin
val app = { request: Request -> Response(OK).body(request.body) }
val server = app.asServer(SunHttp(8000)).start()
```
The `Request` and `Response` objects in there are immutable data classes/POKOs, so testing the app requires absolutely no extra infrastructure - just call the function, it's as easy as:
```kotlin
class AppTest {
    @Test
    fun `responds as expected`() {
        assertThat(app(Request(POST, "/").body("hello")), equalTo(Response(OK).body("hello")))
    }
}
```
To plug it into a different Server-backend, just depend on the relevant module (Jetty, Undertow, Netty are available) and change the call to `asServer()`.

### Function 2: Filter
`Filters` provides pre and post Request processing:
```kotlin
interface Filter : (HttpHandler) -> HttpHandler
```
For discoverability reasons this is modelled as an Interface and not a [typealias](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/type-aliases.html) - it also has a couple of Kotlin [extension methods](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/extensions.html) to allow you to compose `Filters` with `HttpHandlers` and other `Filters`:
```kotlin
val setContentType = Filter { next ->
        { request -> next(request).header("Content-Type", "text/plain") }
    }
val repeatBody = Filter { next ->
        { request -> next(request.body(request.bodyString() + request.bodyString() }
    }
val composedFilter: Filter = repeatBody.then(setContentType)
val decoratedApp: HttpHandler = composedFilter.then(app)
```
Filters are also trivial to test independently, because they are generally just stateless functions.

### Routing
[http4k](https://http4k.org)'s nestable routing looks a lot like every other Sinatra-style framework these days, and allows for infinitely nesting `HttpHandlers` - this just exposes another `HttpHandler` so you can easily extract, test and reuse sets of routes as easily as you could with one:
```kotlin
val app: HttpHandler = routes(
    "/app" bind GET to decoratedApp,
    "/other" bind routes(
        "/delete" bind DELETE to { _: Request -> Response(OK) },
        "/post/{name}" bind POST to { request: Request -> Response(OK).body("you POSTed to ${request.path("name")}") }
    )
)
```

## Claim B. Symmetric HTTP
Out of the multitude of JVM http frameworks out there, not many actually consider how you app talks to other services, yet in this Microservice™ world that's an absolutely massive part of what many apps do!

As per a core principle behind "Server as a Function", [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) provides a symmetric API for HTTP clients - ie. it's *exactly* the same API as is exposed in [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) server applications - the `HttpHandler`. Here's that entire API again, just in case you've forgotten:
```kotlin
typealias HttpHandler = (Request) -> Response
```
What does that mean in practice? Well - for one thing, it's less for your brain to learn  because you already know the API:
```kotlin
val client: HttpHandler = ApacheClient()
val response: Response = client(Request(GET, "http://server/path"))
```
For another, it means that since clients are *just function*s you can easily stub them for testing, and since applications and clients are interchangeable, they can be plugged together in memory without putting them on the network - which makes testing insanely fast:

```kotlin
fun MyApp1(): HttpHandler = { Response(OK) }
fun MyApp2(app1: HttpHandler): HttpHandler = { app1(it) }

val app1: HttpHandler = MyApp1()
val app2: HttpHandler = MyApp2(app1)
```
[**http4k**](https://http4k.org) provides a HTTP client adapters for both [Apache](https://hc.apache.org/) and [OkHttp](http://square.github.io/okhttp/), all with streaming support.

## Claim C. Typesafe HTTP with Lenses
The immutable [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) model for HTTP objects contains all the usual suspect methods for getting values from the messages. For instance, if we are expecting a search parameter with a query containing a page number:
```kotlin
val request = Request(GET, "http://server/search?page=123")
val page: Int = request.query("page")!!.toInt
```
...but we also want to ensure that the expected values are both present and valid, since the above example will fail if either of those things is not true. For this purpose, we can use a [Lens](https://www.schoolofhaskell.com/school/to-infinity-and-beyond/pick-of-the-week/basic-lensing) to enforce the expected HTTP contract.

The use of Lenses in [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) applications can remove the need for writing any parsing or validation code for incoming data, as validations are taken care of by the library. Data received from clients can use exactly the same mechanisms, but violations do need to be handled.

### Lens basics
A Lens is a bi-directional entity which can be used to either *get* (extract) or *set* (inject) a particular value from/onto an HTTP message. [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) provides a DSL to configure these lenses to target particular parts of the message, whilst at the same time specifying the requirement for those parts (i.e. mandatory or optional) and the type. For the above example, we could use the `Query` Lens builder and then apply the Lens to the message:
```kotlin
val pageLens = Query.int().required("page")
val page: Int = pageLens(Request(GET, "http://server/search?page=123"))
```
If the query parameter is missing or not an Int, the lens extraction operation will fail. There are similar Lens builder functions for all parts of the HTTP message (`Header`, `Path`, `Body`, `FormField` etc..), and functions for all common JVM primitive types. They are all completely typesafe - there is no reflection or magic going on - just marshalling of the various entities (in this case String to Int conversion).

In the case of failure, we need to apply a Filter to detect the errors and convert them to a BAD_REQUEST response:
```kotlin
val queryName = Query.string().of("name")
val app: HttpHandler = routes(
      "/post" bind POST to { request: Request -> Response(OK).body(queryName(request)) }
    )

val app = ServerFilters.CatchLensFailure.then(handler)(Request(GET, "/hello/2000-01-01?myCustomType=someValue"))
```

Lenses also have a function to set an object *onto* a target object - since HTTP messages in [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) are immutable, this results in a copy of the object with the value set:
```kotlin
val pageSizeLens = Header.int().required("page")
val page: Response = pageLens(Response(OK), 123)
// or apply multiple lenses using with()
val updated: Request = Request(GET, "/foo").with(pageLens of 123, pageSizeLens of 10)
```

Securely extracting JDK primitives from HTTP messages is great, but we really want to avoid primitives entirely and go straight to domain types. During construction of Lens, the builders allow mapping to occur so we can leverage Kotlin data classes. This works for both get and set operations:
```kotlin
data class MyDate(val value: LocalDate)
val dateQuery = Query.localDate().map(::MyDate, MyDate::value).required("date")
val myDate: dateQuery = dateQuery(Request(GET, "http://server/search?date=2000-01-01"))
```

### Lensing HTTP bodies with Data classes
Some of the supported message libraries (eg. GSON, Jackson, XML) provide the mechanism to automatically marshall data objects to/from JSON and XML using reflection (oops - looks like we broke our reflection promise - but technically we're not doing it ;) !). This behaviour is supported in [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) Lenses through the use of the `auto()` method, which will marshall objects to/from HTTP messages:

```kotlin
data class Email(val value: String)
data class Message(val subject: String, val from: Email, val to: Email)

val messageLens = Body.auto<Message>().toLens()
val body = """{"subject":"hello","from":{"value":"bob@git.com"},"to":{"value":"sue@git.com"}}"""
val message: Message = messageLens(Request(GET, "/").body(body))
```

This mechanism works for all incoming and outgoing JSON and XML Requests and Responses. To assist with using this way of working, we have created a [tool](http://http4k-data-class-gen.herokuapp.com/) to automatically generate a set of data classes for a given messages.

## Claim D. Serverless
Ah yes - Serverless - the latest in the Cool Kids Club and killer fodder for the resume. Well, since [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is server independent, it turns out to be fairly trivial to deploy full applications to [AWS Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda), and then call them by setting up the [API Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway) to proxy requests to the function. Effectively, the combination of these two services become just another Server back-end supported by the library.

In order to achieve this, only a single interface `AppLoader` needs to be implemented - this is responsible for creating the `HttpHandler` which is adapted to the API of the `ApiGatewayProxyRequest/ApiGatewayProxyResponse` used by AWS. As this is AWS, there is a fair amount of configuration required to make this possible, but the only http4k specific config is to:
1. Set the function execution to call `org.http4k.serverless.lambda.LambdaFunction::handle`
2. Set an environment variable for the Lambda `HTTP4K_BOOTSTRAP_CLASS` to the class of your `AppLoader` class.

Here's a simple example:
```kotlin
object TweetEcho : AppLoader {
    override fun invoke(env: Map<String, String>): HttpHandler = {
        Response(OK).body(it.bodyString().take(140))
    }
}
```

Since v3.0.0, this support is available in the `http4k-serverless-lambda` module.

## The final word(s)!
The `http4k-core` module rocks in at <1000 lines of code (about 600kb), and has zero dependencies (other than the Kotlin language itself). Additionally, everything in the core is *functional and predictable* - there is no static API magic going on under the covers (making it difficult to have multiple apps in the same JVM), no compiler-plugins, and no reflection. It also provides:

* Support for static file serving with HotReload.
* A bunch of useful Filters for stuff like [Zipkin](http://zipkin.io/) Request Tracing.
* Support for Request Contexts.
* Facilities to record and replay HTTP traffic.

There are also a bunch of other modules available, all presented with the same concentration on Testability, API simplicity and consistency:
 
* ViewModel driven templating engines with HotReload.
* Popular JSON/XML library support for HTTP bodies.
* Typesafe, multipart forms processing, with support for Streaming uploads to a storage service.
* Typesafe contract module, providing live [OpenApi/Swagger](https://www.openapis.org/) documentation.
* [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/) request signing.
* [Resilience4j](http://resilience4j.github.io/resilience4j/) integration, including Circuit Breakers & Rate Limiting.
* Testing support via [Hamkrest](https://github.com/npryce/hamkrest) matchers and an in-memory [WebDriver](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium) implementation.

Lastly, [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) is **proven in production**, it has been adopted in at least 2 global investment banks (that we know of) and is delivering traffic for a major publishing website (easily serving 10s of million hits per day on a few nodes) since March 2017. 

You can see a few example applications [here](/in_action/), including a bootstrap project for creating a [**Github -> Travis -> Heroku** CD pipeline](https://github.com/http4k/http4k-bootstrap) in a single command.

##### Footnotes
* **"But... but... but... asynchronous! And Webscale!"**, *I heard them froth*. Yes, you are correct - "Server as a Function" is based on asynchronous functions and [**http4k**](https://http4k.org) exposes a synchronous API. However, our experience suggests that for the vast majority of apps, it actually makes API integration harder unless you've got async all the way down - and that is assuming that async clients are actually available for all your various dependency types. We found that this plainly didn't matter for our use-cases so went for *Simple API™* instead... it's possible however that Kotlin co-routines will allow us to revisit this decision.
