src/docs/quickstart/index.md, before:

title: http4k Quickstart
description: Easy ways to get started using http4k

# Quickstart 

This simple example demonstrates how to serve and consume HTTP services using **http4k**. To install, add these dependencies to your **Gradle** file:

```groovy
dependencies {
    implementation platform("org.http4k:http4k-bom:3.272.0")
    implementation "org.http4k:http4k-core"
    implementation "org.http4k:http4k-server-netty"
    implementation "org.http4k:http4k-client-apache"
}
```

The following creates a simple endpoint, binds it to a Netty server then starts, queries, and stops it.

<script src="https://gist-it.appspot.com/https://github.com/http4k/http4k/blob/master/src/docs/quickstart/example.kt"></script>

# Examples Repo
For fully self-contained examples demonstrates the standout features of **http4k**, there is a GitHub repository at [http4k/examples](https://github.com/http4k/examples).

# Single-line CD Bootstrap
Run the single command in the readme of [this repo](https://github.com/http4k/http4k-bootstrap) to create a HelloWorld **http4k** app with a full CD pipeline using Github -> TravisCI -> Heroku.

Commit message:

remove installation, rename quickstart, add toolbox instructions

src/docs/quickstart/index.md, after:

title: http4k Quickstart
description: Easy ways to get started using http4k

# Quickstart 

This simple example demonstrates how to serve and consume HTTP services using **http4k**. To install, add these dependencies to your **Gradle** file:

```groovy
dependencies {
    implementation platform("org.http4k:http4k-bom:3.272.0")
    implementation "org.http4k:http4k-core"
    implementation "org.http4k:http4k-server-netty"
    implementation "org.http4k:http4k-client-apache"
}
```

The following creates a simple endpoint, binds it to a Netty server then starts, queries, and stops it.

<script src="https://gist-it.appspot.com/https://github.com/http4k/http4k/blob/master/src/docs/quickstart/example.kt"></script>

# http4k Toolbox 
We have developed a set of useful tools for Developers working with the **http4k** toolset to turbo-charge app development. Collectively, this is known as the <a href="https://toolbox.http4k.org">http4k Toolbox</a>. These tools include:

- A **Project Wizard** that generates entire bootstrap Server and Serverless project source folders - including 
fully working starter code, build tooling, extra modules and packaging options.
- From **OpenAPI v2 & V3** specification JSON/YAML, generate an entire working **http4k** Server, Client and Model objects (generated from JSON Schema).
- **Generate Kotlin Data Class** definitions from an inputted JSON, YAML, or XML document.

# Examples Repo
For fully self-contained examples demonstrates the standout features of **http4k**, there is a GitHub repository at [http4k/examples](https://github.com/http4k/examples).

# Single-line CD Bootstrap
Run the single command in the readme of [this repo](https://github.com/http4k/http4k-bootstrap) to create a HelloWorld **http4k** app with a full CD pipeline using Github -> TravisCI -> Heroku.
