src/docs/guide/modules/webdriver/index.md, before:

title: http4k Webdriver Module
description: Feature overview of the http4k-webdriver module

### Installation (Gradle)

```groovy
implementation group: "org.http4k", name: "http4k-testing-webdriver", version: "3.285.2"
```

### About

A basic Selenium WebDriver API implementation for [http4k] HttpHandlers, which runs completely out of container (no network) for ultra fast tests.

| Feature | Supported | Notes |
|---------|-----------|-------|
| Navigation|yes|simple back/forward/refresh history|
| CSS selectors|yes||
| Link navigation|yes||
| Form field entry and submission|yes||
| Cookie storage|yes|manual expiry management|
| JavaScript|no||
| Alerts|no||
| Screenshots|no||
| Frames|no||
| Multiple windows|no||

Use the API like any other WebDriver implementation, by simply passing your app HttpHandler to construct it:

#### Code [<img class="octocat"/>](https://github.com/http4k/http4k/blob/master/src/docs/guide/modules/webdriver/example.kt)

<script src="https://gist-it.appspot.com/https://github.com/http4k/http4k/blob/master/src/docs/guide/modules/webdriver/example.kt"></script>

[http4k]: https://http4k.org

Commit message:

added test for what happens when you use the incorrect By class.

src/docs/guide/modules/webdriver/index.md, after:

title: http4k Webdriver Module
description: Feature overview of the http4k-webdriver module

### Installation (Gradle)

```groovy
implementation group: "org.http4k", name: "http4k-testing-webdriver", version: "3.285.2"
```

### About

A basic Selenium WebDriver API implementation for [http4k] HttpHandlers, which runs completely out of container (no network) for ultra fast tests, backed by JSoup.

| Feature | Supported | Notes |
|---------|-----------|-------|
| Navigation|yes|simple back/forward/refresh history|
| CSS selectors|yes||
| Link navigation|yes||
| Form field entry and submission|yes||
| Cookie storage|yes|manual expiry management|
| JavaScript|no||
| Alerts|no||
| Screenshots|no||
| Frames|no||
| Multiple windows|no||

Use the API like any other WebDriver implementation, by simply passing your app HttpHandler to construct it. Note that we now support version 4 of the API, which has deprecated the old `By` implementations. 
http4k ships with a custom set of JSoup `By` implementations, so be sure to import `org.http4k.webdriver.By` instead of the old `org.openqa.selenium.By` ones (which will fail with a `ClassCastException` 
when used).

#### Code [<img class="octocat"/>](https://github.com/http4k/http4k/blob/master/src/docs/guide/modules/webdriver/example.kt)

<script src="https://gist-it.appspot.com/https://github.com/http4k/http4k/blob/master/src/docs/guide/modules/webdriver/example.kt"></script>

[http4k]: https://http4k.org
